hello my name is andres perez manager
of technical marketing and
communications area oil and
caterpillar gas I'm here in the
Offshore technology conference
2013 that is being carried out in the
City of Houston in Texas
We hope you had the opportunity
to visit us during the
exhibition but in case that does not
has been possible to accompany by some
minutes to give you a brief tour
about the products that we are
exhibiting this year let's start with the
more imposing unit than caterpillar
has on display this year the engine 35
12 designed specifically for
Well stimulation applications with
hydraulic fracturing operations
This engine is an engine designed with 2
thousand 250 horsepower or 2500
horsepower at 1800 revolutions
per minute two configurations are
available air cooling with
air and air with water to really
have the opportunity to apply it to
any type of application
hydraulic fracturing this engine
the most significant thing that has happened with
this engine this year is that it meets
the regulations
of the environmental protection agency
US Environmental epa has
four final
this is a significant reduction in
the pollutants in the exhaust gases
and to achieve this caterpillar has
introduced reduction technologies
nitrogen oxide in combination with a
Catalytic oxidation converter for
thus reduce means significantly
to the pollutants in the gases of
escape
let's talk now about some details
about this caterpillar engine has
decreased installation complexity
of this engine in the facilities of
our customers and for this we are
providing a complete package with
all the technologies and all the
components included in a package that
complies with tier 4 regulations
final as you can see all the
Necessary components are mounted on
the engine as are the cleaners
air with the pre air cleaners
also the muffler converters
catalytic and all the lines that are
necessary for the motor to be 100%
functional
this engine also unlike the
Tier 2 engines or the previous generation
has the distribution system of
common rail fuel that is a
high pressure fuel system
that helps us improve efficiency and
also reduce the pollutants that
come out of the exhaust gases as we have
talked about the 3512 engines for
Well stimulation applications
are designed for easy integration and
this also includes space
with the caterpillar line of
transmissions such as the th 55 and the c
x 48 this year we have available the
transmission ce x 48 underweight this
transmission with only 1,800
kilograms of weight is an application
ideal for mobile units
Well stimulation the transmission is x
48 has a wide range of operation
with 9 speeds and integrates
perfectly with the engine at 35 12 well
also like the motors 35 12 for
Well stimulation something that also
It is worth mentioning that this transmission is
designed to minimize the time of
maintenance and also is is
designed for maintenance to be
aligned with engine maintenance
well when I have to make a
maintenance can be done at the same
time for both engines and
transmission and maximize the time of
use of the engine
for many years that dares has
provided high quality products
for the oil and gas industry as
they are engines generators and
transmissions this year catela is
Proud to present the new line
of units caterpillar products
of pumping for applications of
Well stimulation is unit of
pumping is extremely w s 273
load for extreme applications is what
that we have in the exhibition this year is
a triplex pump which means that
They are three pistons and have a capacity
of up to two thousand 700 horses
power this particular unit is
available at the end of 2013 and
introduce with other models to
also stimulation applications
well of 2 thousand 250 horsepower and
2500 horsepower at a time
let's hope you 're excited like that
how are we to present
this new product in the market that
complements the caterpillar line for
Well stimulation applications
oil tanker as we just saw the
pumping units are constituted
by two parts which is unity
of power and the other unit of
fluids this year also on display
we have the fluid units by
separate and as you can see here
we have the triple c's and 5 plex that are
of 3 or 5 pistons and also on this side
the triple and fifth place
equally 35 pistons is being of
extreme application it should be mentioned that
all these sides of fluids are
designed according to the standards of
the industry so they can be
integrated into existing units that
they are in the field, thank you for your time
and thank you for the opportunity to give them
this brief tour about our
exhibition during the conference
technology cost out 2013 in houston
texas we hope that you as well as
we are excited for the new
products that we are introducing to
market remember that all these
products are
supported by more than 2,200 locations
that belong to our network of
distributors around the world
remember that they can
provide technical support
Sales and service if you want more
information visit our website
www.uva.es langas info.com or contact
your dealer in your locality
You can also send the questions by
facebook or by twitter thank you very much and
See you from houston texas